Tom was an American inventor who grew up in Michigan together with his six siblings.
He was homeschooled by his mother and read many books on Science and Art.
Regardless of Tom’s hearing problems, he was a bright boy who loved to experiment and learn new things. He began his career as an inventor at the age of thirty by creating a device that could record sounds and play them back. This invention was revolutionary at that time and essentially made Tom a celebrity. Everyone was calling him a genius.

This attention inspired Tom to continue experimenting with transmitters until one day he
stumbled upon a system of electric illumination. During the 1800’s, people lit up their homes with gas and oil-based lamps. The problem was that these methods were expensive and dangerous. Many houses burned down after oil lamps were accidentally dropped and draperies caught on fire. Tom saw a problem that most people didn’t even realize they had, and he wanted to find a solution.

So, he hired a team of experts to assist him in a new project that would change the world.
As with most major achievements, there were many failures along the way. And after some
time, the people around him started to doubt the project and tried to encourage him to stop
his efforts and work on something else. But this never discouraged Tom.

He understood that if he was going to invent something extraordinary, it wouldn’t be easy, he would have to fail, and it would be through those difficult moments that would make him stronger and give him the experience he needed to succeed. After years of trial and error, Thomas A. Edison changed the world by inventing the lightbulb.


# Vocab

[**stumbled upon**](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/stumble-across-on-upon) to discover something by chance
[**draperies**](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/drapery)  cloth hanging or arranged in folds

# Questions

1. What types of books did Thomas enjoy reading as a child?

Thomas enjoy reading books on Science and Art

2. Why were people calling Thomas a genius at the age of thirty?

People were calling Thomas a genius because he invented the "Phonograph", a device that could record sounds and play them back.

3. What were some of the problems that Thomas solved?

- Prior the phonograph, the sound could only be captured through live performances. With this invention Thomas allowed people to record and replay sound therefore the preservation of music became a reality since then.
- Before the lightbulb people relied on oil lamps and gaslights. Those sources were dangerous. Lightbulb provided safe and convenient source of light.


5. What disabilities did Thomas have?

Thomas had hearing problems.

5. How did Thomas make a difference in the world?

He invent the lightbulb, a revolutionary device that changed how the people lit up their homes. 

6. What kept Thomas going after many failed attempts?
Thomas knew the difficulties of his research, he was aware of the failures he had to face to acquire the necessary experience to success.

7. What did you learn from this story?
I did learn the importance of practice and discipline in achieving mastery. The geniuses that changed the world are passionate, curious and super persistent.

