---
id: 10. Not all that glitters is gold
aliases: []
tags: []
---

The circus industry has changed a lot in the last century. At one point, going to the
circus was the preferred choice of entertainment among families.

What was not to love? There were games, prizes, popcorn, candy apples, face painting,
clowns and of course the spectacular shows. It was an event the whole family could enjoy.

But not everything that glitters is gold. Under those big red and white tents, there was
something sinister going on. Elephants, Lions, Bears and even Mice were bred in captivity,
spending their entire lives in unnatural and stressful environments.

The living conditions were abhorrent. Large animals were confined to, filthy and poorly
ventilated spaces. And if that wasn’t enough, the animal trainers would whip and beat the
animals when they couldn’t perform a trick properly.

Imagine how hard it would be to train an elephant to ride a bicycle or stand on their head.
What about getting a tiger to jump through a ring of fire?

Just think of the abuse these beautiful creatures had to endure all in the name
of entertainment and of course, MONEY.

Tutu the Bear was famous for his incredible dancing abilities.
The circus sold tons of merchandise of Tutu. T-shirts, hats, buttons and stuffed animals.

If you were brave enough you could even have your picture taken with him.
He was a great performer, and all the kids loved him.

But looks can be deceiving. Behind the façade, Tutu was sad and heartbroken. He was taken
from his mother at a young age and forced to stand on heated coals while his trainer played music.

This created an emotional impact on the young cub, and over time,
whenever he heard music, he would instinctively hop around thinking
there were fireballs under his feet, which gave the impression of a dancing bear.

Ellie the Elephant was also a featured animal at the circus.
She was a very tame and gentle giant that could stand on her head, and balance on a ball.
Her trainers could literally walk her around the park with just a rope around her ankle.

Some wondered why Ellie never tried to escape. Couldn’t this massive animal break free from
a thin piece of rope?

Well, the answer is yes. If Ellie had the will, she could have broken free from the shackles, but
all her life she had been conditioned to believe that if something was wrapped around her
ankle, it meant she was bound and enslaved without power.

You see, Ellie was born in captivity, and when she was only two years old, her trainers chained
her mother to a wall, tied Ellie’s legs up and dragged her away from her frantic mother.

This traumatic experience broke the spirit of the young calf,
and after years of fighting the restraints, Ellie just stopped trying
to escape and she became a submissive giant. This is when the tortuous training began.

The physical and mental abuse she had to go through made her depressed and with no will to fight.
Poor Ellie never realized how strong and powerful she really was.

- [whip](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/whip): a long,
  thin piece of leather or rope, used for hitting animals or people
- [tame](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/tame): Not wild
  or dangerous
- [shackles](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/shackle): a
  device, usually one of a pair, that fastens around a person's wrists or ankles
  and is connected by a chain

1. What are some things you can find at a circus?

Some things you can find at a circus are games, prizes, popcorn, candy apples,
face painting, clowns, and spectacular shows.

2. Describe the conditions circus animals had to live in.

Circus animals lived in filthy and poorly ventilated spaces. They were confined
to small areas and were often whipped and beaten by their trainers.

3. How did these wild animals become tame?

These wild animals became tame through physical and mental abuse. They were
taken from their mothers at a young age and conditioned to believe they were
powerless.

4. Have you ever been to a circus with animals?

Yes, I have been to a circus with animals when I was younger, but at the time
I din't realize the conditions the animals were living in. In the present day,
I would not support circuses that use animals for entertainment.

5. Can you think of any other establishments that keep animals in captivity?

Some other establishment that keep animals in captivity are zoos, and aquariums.
However, not all zoos and aquariums are bad. Some of them have
programs to help endangered species and educate the public about wildlife
conservation.

6. What are your thoughts on this topic?

I'm horrified by the conditions circus animals have to live in. I think it's
a cruel practice to keep wild animals in captivity for entertainment. I believe
that have to be treated as a crime. Animals should be free to live in their
natural habitats and not be subjected to abuse and exploitation.
