There was once a man named Jim who was up to his neck in debt. He owed money on
his car, his house, and his credit cards and was finding it hard to get out of debt, so he
decided to go to a loan shark for help.

The loan shark lent him the money with one condition. If Jim didn’t pay back the loan within
a month, he would owe double the amount.

Confident that he would have the money, Jim agreed to the condition.

A month passed, and the loan shark was calling Jim so he could collect his money, but he
wasn’t able to get a hold of him. It seemed as though Jim was hiding.

Three months had gone by, and all of a sudden, the loan shark received a tip that Jim was
shopping at the mall with his daughter. So, he rushed to the mall and confronted Jim and his
daughter just as they were about to get into the car.

“Jim! Where have you been? I’ve been looking for you!”

“Hey!” Jim responded with a quiver in his voice. “Ya, I’ve been looking for you too. I had your
money, but I couldn’t reach you. I can have it to you by next week.”

“You know, the amount has tripled. Are you really going to have all that money for me in one
week?” The loan shark asked.

“Ya, don’t worry. I’ll have it for you.” Replied Jim.

Knowing that Jim would probably disappear again, the loan shark made him another offer.
“Why don’t I make you another deal,” said the loan shark. “I’m going to pick up two pebbles: a white one and a grey one. I’ll put them both in this bag, and your beautiful daughter can pick out one of the pebbles. If she picks out the white one, I’ll wipe your debt clean and walk away. But if she picks out the grey one, I’ll still clear your debt, but your daughter will have to marry me.”

The daughter was appalled at the request, and even more appalled when she noticed her father was considering taking the offer.

“Deal.” said Jim.

So, the loan shark bent down to pick up the pebbles. Jim’s daughter was paying close attention and noticed the loan shark picked up two grey pebbles and put them in the bag.
“Take your pick, my dear,” said the loan shark.

Now, the daughter had three options. She could have:

a. Refused to pick a pebble.
b. Picked up both pebbles and exposed the loan shark’s scam
c. Picked a pebble from the bag knowing that she would have to marry the ugly loan shark

But Jim’s daughter was a smart cookie, and she quickly evaluated each option and its
repercussions. She knew she needed to think outside the box. So, she reached into the bag
and picked up a pebble, but before showing anyone, she ‘accidentally’ dropped it on the floor with all the other pebbles.

“Oops!! I dropped the pebble. But don’t worry, just look into the bag for the pebble that’s left, and you’ll be able to tell which color pebble I picked.”

When the father looked into the bag, he saw a grey pebble and let out a sigh of relief that his
loan would be cleared, and he wouldn’t have to marry off his daughter.

The loan shark stayed quiet as he didn’t want to expose his cheating ways and was forced to
clear Jim’s debt.

# Questions

1. Describe Jim’s management of money.

Jim's was terrible at money management. He accumulated debt on his car, house and credit cards. He had any financial discipline.

2. Why was it so difficult for the loan shark to contact Jim?
Jim was intentionally avoiding the loan shark. He realized he couldn't repay the debt and was trying to evade the consequences.

3. Think about the 3 options that Jim’s daughter had and imagine what the outcomes
could have been for each option.

- Picking up both pebbles and expose the loan shark's scam: This was risky, the loan shark might have take revenge against both Jim and his daughter.
- Picking a pebble from the bag: This would carry the risk of getting to marry the loan shark if she picked the gray pebble with a 50% chance.
- Refusing to pick a pebble: Whit might have escalated the situation. The loan shark could have become aggressive, and Jim might have faced further consequences.

4. What would you have done if your father made a deal like that with a loan shark

I would likely try to find a way to expose the loan shark's trick while minimizing the risk to my father and myself. I could try to secretly record the loan shark picking up the pebbles.

5. What are your thoughts about lending money to friends?
Lending money to friend is not recommendable. It's important to set clear expectations and document the loan. If you want to keep a friendship do not lend money.

6. Have you ever borrowed money from a loan shark?
No. I've never borrowed money from a loan shark. I always prefer to lend money from the bank or a any legal institution protected by the law. In our country loan sharks are extremely dangerous people that commit crimes of extortion against their victims.

7. Change the ending of this story.
Jim's daughter 