The Ming Dynasty, A.K.A the Great Ming Empire, was a ruling government of China
in the 14th century.

The regime was very resourceful and spent a lot of energy into creating a self-sustaining society.

They were extravagant and would not accept anything less than excellence.
During this time, China was the number one exporter for goods like rice, tea and fine silks for
countries in the West.

The King often had peddlers line up to show him the newest commodity in hopes of being a
significant provider in the trading market.

One day an old peddler presented the King with a stunning porcelain vase that was made from the finest white clay. This unique clay allowed for a silky finish that no other material could emulate. It was porcelain at its most refined state.

The King was immediately impressed but as extravagant as he was, he ordered the peddler to
go outside and find a large rock. When the peddler came back with the rock, the King told the peddler to smash the vase with the rock.

Surprised at the request, he told the King that the vase took months to perfect, that the clay
was very hard to acquire, and it would be impossible to make an identical vase.

The King was irritated by the peddler’s resistance and ordered him to break the vase at once.
The peddler reluctantly complied with the King’s demand and hit the vase once with the
rock. It broke into four pieces, but the king wasn’t satisfied. He urged the peddler to continue
breaking the porcelain until it was unrecognizable and reduced to tiny pieces.

“Now, you will take these pieces and put the vase back together using liquid gold,” said the King.

The peddler, almost in tears, collected every piece making sure he didn’t leave anything behind and went to put the vase back together.

After a week, the peddler returned to the King with the vase intact.

Thrilled at the final result, the King welcomed the peddler into his monarchy on the condition
that he revealed the secret to his craft.

The peddler agreed and went on to explain that the fine white powder-like clay is only found
at the top of the active volcano, Mount Chinxoia. There is no road up this mountain, and the
terrain is very rough. Once you make it to the top of the volcano (which could take days), you
fill your bag with its steaming hot clay and return down the mountain ASAP. You must be
quick on the journey back down, because the hot clay burns through the bags and can burn
your skin upon contact. He then showed the King the scars on his back to prove his claim.

 Now, as soon as you’re back home with the clay, you must get started on the vase immediately because the clay hardens as it cools. 
 
 The King was inspired by the blood, sweat and tears put into this piece of art, that he officially declared that only members of the Ming Dynasty shall be allowed to gather this clay and the creation process shall remain the same indefinitely.
 
The effort put into this masterpiece is extraordinary and has remained unchanged until this
day, (that includes the breaking and reassembly with gold) which might explain why some
Ming vases can be worth millions of dollars in today’s market.

# QUESTION

1. In your own words, describe what the Ming Dynasty was. Provide as much detail
as possible.

The Ming Dynasty was a big, important government in China a long time ago, in the 14th century. They were focused on making a strong and independent society. They liked extravagant things and were the best at selling rice, tea and silk to other countries.

2. What were some of China’s major commodities?

China's major commodities were rice, tea and fine silks. They sold these to other countries in the West.

4. What was so special about the clay used to make the vase?

The clay they used for the vase was very special because it was a fine, white, powder-like clay. It made the vase very smooth like silk, and no other material could do that. It was a very special clay.

5. Why did the King demand the peddler to break the vase?

The king wanted the peddler to break the vase, and then fix it with gold. This was part of the process to make the vase even more valuable than before.

7. How long does it take to make a Ming vase?
8. Describe the process of collecting the clay.
9. What happens to the clay when it gets cold?
10. How much are these vases worth today?