Once upon a time, there lived a stray dog named T-Bone who was abandoned when he
was a puppy. Growing up alone and on the streets, T-Bone would often come across
other stray dogs who would steal his food, so he learned to become very tough on the
exterior in order to survive.

He would always bark at things like birds, cars, cats, and people. Anyone who got close, was a
potential threat and needed to be frightened away.

However, T-Bone’s bark was bigger than his bite. He never hurt anyone or anything in his
twelve years of life.

One hot summer day while T-Bone was out looking for food in the backyards, he came across a yard that was decorated for a birthday party.

Red balloons were tied to the trees and chairs. The table was set up beautifully with quality
paper plates, thick printed napkins and of course a huge birthday cake with vanilla cream icing.

As he walked over to get a better look (at the décor of course), he passed by the barbeque that was just turned on and was warming up. Beside that BBQ, was a table with thick juicy steaks just waiting to be slapped on the BBQ and sizzled to perfection.

T-Bone immediately forgot about the cake and went straight for the steaks (as any dog would do). Since the table was too high for T-Bone to reach the meat, he needed to be creative with his plan of action.

First and most importantly, he needed to go unseen because if anyone caught him in the act,
they would turn him into a hotdog.

Second, he needed to do this quickly because the BBQ was heating up fast and it would be
dangerous to climb up around it.

In other words, if T-Bone didn’t want to get sizzled to perfection along with the juicy steaks,
he needed to be very careful and very quick.

The backyard seemed to be set up for a child’s birthday, so there were small plastic chairs all
around. T-Bone grabbed one of the chairs in his teeth and carried it over to the BBQ. He tried
to stand on the chair, but it was too small and couldn’t support his weight.

He tried once, then twice, and the third time he lost his balance and fell onto the BBQ table,
and all the steaks came crashing down to the ground.

Just then, the backdoor swung open, and it was a large man with giant tongs in one hand and an oven mitt on the other. “GET OUT OF HERE!” he shouted.

T-Bone jumped up in surprise, grabbed two steaks and ran. He didn’t even make it to the end
of the driveway when one of the steaks fell out of his mouth. He turned back to get it, but there was an angry man with two scary-looking hands running towards him, so he decided it wasn’t worth the risk and kept running. The steak was hanging out of T-Bone’s drooling mouth, and as tempting as it was to stop and eat, he ran until he was forced to stop at a riverbed.

Given how thirsty he was from all the running, T-Bone looked into the river to see if it was
clean enough to drink, but as he looked down, he saw another dog looking back at him with a similar looking steak.

‘That’s the steak I dropped back at the house! He stole my dinner!’ thought T-Bone, and he
opened his mouth to try and snatch the other dog’s meat, and his thick juicy steak fell into
the water.

That’s when T-Bone realized that the other dog he saw in the water was a reflection of himself.


1. Describe T-Bone’s upbringing.
2. What difficulties did T-Bone have to face growing up?
3. How did T-Bone’s upbringing affect his personality later in life?
4. Was T-Bone a vicious dog?
5. What were the things T-Bone needed to do in order to be successful in his
attempts to steal the steaks?
6. How did the steaks fall from the table to the ground?
7. How old is T-Bone in the story?
8. Would you consider T-Bone an intelligent dog? Why or why not?
9. Do you think T-Bone acted instinctively?
10. What would you say the moral to this story is?