---
id: 5. The sacred donkey
aliases: []
tags: []
---

Buckley the donkey woke up to the sun shining bright on his face.
He became irritated with the brightness and walked over to
the shade so that he could continue his slumber.

Buckley was a slow donkey who was born with a limp.
He tried to move about using as little energy as possible
because he always felt like he had a disability.

Ever since he was a young calf, his family would always treat him as the “special one” The one
unable to do any heavy lifting. His friends at school would tease him for the way he walked,
and he was never chosen when it came to teams.

Throughout his entire life, he was told he couldn’t do things, that he was slow and weak.
So, this is how Buckley believed himself to be.

He lived on a farm with other donkeys of all shapes, colors, and sizes.
There was an donkey for the master’s every need.

Today was going to be a big day. All the donkeys knew there was a big event with hundreds of
people. They were all prepared and eager to be selected so they could show off their carrying
potential.

Buckley knew he wouldn’t be chosen, so he stayed under the Willow Tree in the shade. Just
then, the master walked passed the gate and towards the tree where Buckley was sleeping.

He gave Buckley a little kick on the butt and Buckley jumped up in surprise.
“Let’s go Buck!” shouted the master. “I’ve got an important job for you today.”

All the other donkeys looked perplexed as the master led Buckley out of the stable.

The master started preparing Buckley for the job. But this time, something was different.
First, the master washed all the mud off him, and then he was powdered and towel dried.
He was then draped in fine red and purple fabrics. Fresh white flowers adorned his neck.
They brushed his tail, his teeth and braided his hair.

All this for me? Buckley thought.

Buckley had no idea that his job was to carry a sacred sculpture to the top of the mountain.
The master knew Buckley was the right fit for the job because he was naturally a slow walker.
And a job like this required a slow, gentle donkey.

As the walk began, Buckley could see people on their knees crying with pure bliss in their eyes.

The town’s people threw petals at him as he walked by.
They dropped to their knees with their hands folded, praising and blowing kisses.

Buckley didn’t realize that all the fuss was for the sculpture and he was confused at the fact
that he was getting so much attention, but he loved it.

It wasn’t long before Buckley started to absorb all the love and began to walk with a little more confidence. His head was held up high, and Buckley was feeling like a stallion. He exuded so much vibrance and poise that you normally wouldn’t see in an donkey, and the other masters were inquiring about him.

On the ride home, after a long day, his master just fed Buckley with words of praise and
gratitude for a job well done.

Buckley was called upon every year for the sacred march, and he never walked with a limp again.

# Vocabulary

- [draped](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/braided): to cover or adorn with or as if with folds of cloth
- [braided](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/braided): Ornamented with a braid
- [fuss](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/fuss): needless bustle or excitement
- [slumber](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/slumber): to sleep lightly
- [limp](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/limp): to walk lamely; especially : to walk favoring one leg

# Questions

1. Describe Buckley’s demeaner at the beginning of the story.

At the beginning of the story, Buckley is insecure.
He feels slow and weak because of his limp and he believes what others say about him.

2. What was Buckley’s disability?

He was born with a limp.

3. How was Buckley treated differently?

Because of his limp, Buckley's friends teased him and excluded him from their games.

4. What would you say about Buckley’s self-esteem?

Buckley had low self-esteem. He accepted the negative things that were said about him
and resigned himself to the fact that he was slow and weak.

5. Why did the master choose Buckley for this important job?

The master chose Buckley because he was a slow walker, which was perfect for carrying the sacred sculpture.

6. How was Buckley prepared for the job?

The master washed Buckley and decorated him with fine fabrics and flowers.

7. What colors did the master dress Buckley in?

The master dressed Buckley in red and purple fabrics.

8. What was going through Buckley’s mind when he saw the reaction of the crowd?

He was at first confused by all the fuss but he loved the attention.

9. How did Buckley correct his walk after all these years?

Buckley’s walk improved because he gained confidence from the positive attention.

10. In your own words, explain the moral of the story.

The story teaches us that we shouldn’t let others’ opinions define us.
Buckley found his confidence and walked with pride when he realized his own value.
