Colonel Harland Sanders went through many hardships in his life before he opened
the biggest fried chicken franchise chain in the world.
In 1895, when Harland was just six years old, his father died which forced his mother to find
work in a factory. She was often away for days at a time, which left little Harland responsible
for his two other siblings. He took care of the house and did all the cooking, which is where he developed his skills in the kitchen.
His mother was unable to make ends meet, so at the age of ten, Harland was forced to work on a farm earning $10.00 a month to help support the family.
Harland tried to balance work and school, but he eventually dropped out after only completing grade 6.
It wasn’t long before his mother found another husband, but Harland’s relationship with his
step-father was so turbulent that at the age of thirteen he left home.
At sixteen, Harland enlisted in the army but was discharged a year later.
He was then hired by a railway company but got fired for fighting with a co-worker.
After a while, Harland decided to study Law, and he continued in this field for three years,
until he ruined his career by fighting in court with his own client.
Harland had hit rock bottom and was forced to move back home with his mother and sell life
insurance. This job worked out for a bit, but Harland was destined for bigger things.
He established a ferry boat company which was an instant success, and he sold his shares for
$22,000, so he could invest in the manufacturing of lamps.
Well, as the story goes, this investment was a total flop, and Sanders lost his money.
Harland continued to take on random jobs until the age of forty. It was during the Great
Depression that he began selling fried chicken at service stations.
The pressure fried chicken was a hit in the town of North Corbin, Kentucky, as it cooked faster than regular pan-fried chicken.
After four years of working at the service station, he opened a small motel which included
a restaurant to sell his chicken. But only four months later, there was a kitchen fire, and it
burned down.
So, Harland did what Harland did best, and that was to pick himself up and dust himself off.
He built and ran a new motel-restaurant until the financial pressures from WWII forced him
to close it down.
Now, Harland was left with nothing but his secret chicken recipe that he discovered and
mastered while working in the kitchen.
At the age of sixty-five, Harland retired, and his only income was his $100.00 monthly pension check.
Feeling like a failure, he and his wife traveled throughout the US, often sleeping in his car,
looking for suitable restaurants and offering to cook chicken for them. If they liked the recipe,
he would try to negotiate franchise rights.
After multiple attempts to franchise his fried chicken recipe and being rejected over 1000 times, Sanders finally caught a break and a man by the name of Pete Harman took a chance on the idea and invested in the franchise.
The business was highly successful and expanded internationally to Canada, UK, Mexico,
and Jamaica.
This expansion was significant, but with over 600 locations, the work became overwhelming
for Sanders and at the age of seventy-four, he sold the corporation for 2 million dollars. The
deal didn’t include the Canadian operations, and Sanders moved to Mississauga Ontario to
oversee his Canadian franchises.
Sanders passed away at the age of ninety, and at the time of his death, there were an estimated 6,000 KFC outlets in 48 countries worldwide.

# QUESTIONS

1. Name three difficulties Harland Sanders faced as a child.
2. Describe Harland’s character. What kind of person was he?
3. How old was Harland when he got his first job?
4. How many different jobs did Harland have?
5. How old was Sanders when he got discharged from the army?
6. At what age did Sanders start selling fried chicken?
7. What was different from Sanders chicken compared to other fried chicken recipes?
8. How old was Sanders when he opened his motel restaurant?