A teacher was experimenting with his students and told them that they were going to
play god for a moment and decide the fate of four fictional characters.

**Character #1**
A homeless man in his 30’s who had been living on the streets of NYC since he was a teenager.
High school dropout. The little money he makes comes from begging outside of the subway
station. He doesn’t do drugs or drink alcohol. He has one child, who lives in California with
his mother.

**Character** #2
A young woman who just graduated from University with a business degree. Has a considerably large school debt but is slowly paying it off. She’s a nice girl with more motivation than potential, but she has dreams of moving to NYC in hopes of finding a good job opportunity. (which she most likely won’t get)

**Character #3**
A father of four children, drowning in debt. Marriage on the rocks. He’s a good father and spends a lot of time with his children. He works a 9-5 government job and makes a decent salary.

**Character #4**
A 45-year-old multimillionaire who runs multiple companies and has over 1000 employees.
Travels the world on his sailboat and lives a wonderful life. However, he’s single and looking
to settle down with the right woman.

Now, the students had to choose which of the four characters would win a 5-million-dollar
lottery ticket and explain why they chose that person.

“I would give the money to the homeless man,” said a student. “He’s obviously the one in the most need.”
“I would give it to the father of four,” said another student. “It could save his marriage, pay off his debt and pay for the children’s education.”
“I think the woman who graduated from university deserves it because she has worked so hard to get where she’s at, and her dreams will be crushed when she doesn’t find a job in NYC.”

Then the teacher interrupted, and asked the class, “So none of you would give the money to the millionaire?”

“Of course not! He’s the one who least needs it,” yelled a voice from the back of the room.
Then another student spoke up, “If I were god, I would give the winning ticket to the multimillionaire over the other guys.”

“And why is that?” asked the teacher.

“Well,” she went on to explain, “I wouldn’t give it to the homeless guy because he’s never had money and wouldn’t know how to handle the instant fortune. He doesn’t have the experience or tools to work with money and it’s obvious he doesn’t have any interest in trying to help himself since he just begs others for money.”

“I wouldn’t give it to the University student either. Since she’s just starting her life and although she might not get a job in NYC, she will develop a strong character while trying. I wouldn’t want to halt the momentum she has going.”

“The father of four is obviously not organized with his finances. If he can’t be organized with the little money that he has, how will he be able to manage the millions? He needs to learn how to get himself out of the debt he accumulated and set a good example for his family.”

“The millionaire, however, is very organized with his finances. He must have worked very hard and gone through difficult times to get to where he is today. He wouldn’t go crazy with the new fortune because he is used to having money. But most importantly, I believe that the more money he has, the more job opportunities he will give to people who want to work.”

# Questions

Which character would you give the lottery ticket to and why? Come up with
your own reasons.
