---
id: 8. Slow and steady wins the race
aliases: []
tags: []
---

There once was a turtle named Slow Poke. He was very slow at everything he did. He
walked slow, talked slow, and thought slow. Friends at school would make fun of him
because he even played slow! At recess, none of the animals would let him join in
because he couldn’t play any of the games.

One day, Bully Bunny jokingly challenged Slow Poke to a race. “Hey Slow Poke! Wanna have a
race?” All the other animals chuckled.

Eager to join in on any activity, Slow Poke accepted the challenge and responded, “Ok sure!”
“You’re kidding, right? You know, I’m the quickest and most intelligent rabbit around.” Bully
Bunny boasted.

“You may be quick, you may be nimble, but slow and steady is plenty.” replied Slow Poke.
Bully Bunny looked puzzled with Slow Pokes response. “Save your wits for poetry class! I’m
going to beat you in this race. Then we’ll see who has the last laugh.”

All the animals gathered as the race was about to begin.

Chatty Cat held up a flag up and hollered “On your marks. Get set. GO!”
Bully Bunny took off at lightning speed, running through the forest as fast as he could. At
times, he was hopping on one foot, bouncing in the air to show off his agility.

Bully Bunny looked back and saw that Slow Poke was way behind. He yelled “What made you
think you could ever beat me in a race? I’m too quick for you turtle! Hahaha”

Slow Poke saw his opponent way up ahead, but that didn’t discourage him one bit.
He continued the race. Slow and steady.

Bully Bunny looked back again and saw that he had advanced a lot and had a great advantage.

So, he decided to lay under a tree and relax a little.

Slow Poke continued slow and steady.

An hour had passed by, and Bully Bunny had relaxed a little too much and had fallen asleep
only to be woken up by the loud cheers of the other animals.

Slow Poke was almost at the finish line!

Bully Bunny sprung up from his nap and hopped as fast as he could towards the crowd, but it
was too late. Slow Poke won the race. Bully Bunny couldn’t believe it.

All the animals crowded around Slow Poke, cheering in delight. “How did you do it?” They asked.

Slow Poke thought about his answer for a moment and slowly replied “What matters most, is
not your fast pace. For slow and steady will win any race.”

# Vocabulary

- [chuckle](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/chuckle): laughed quietly
- [wits](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/wits): intelligence
- [gathered](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/gather): came together
- [hollered](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/holler): shouted
- [sprung up](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/spring-up): quickly stood up
- [hopped](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/hop): jumped
- [boastful](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/boastful): bragging

# Questions

- Who are the main characters in the story?

The main characters in the story are Slow Poke and Bully Bunny.

- Why did the other animals make fun of Slow Poke?

They made fun of him because he was slow at everything he did.

- How did Slow Poke win the race?

Slow Poke won using the slow and steady approach. He knew that it was not about
speed but about consistency and he kept moving forward, while Bully Bunny who
had an excessive confidence in his speed, relaxed and fell asleep.

- Why did Bully Bunny fall asleep?

Bully Bunny fell asleep because he thought he had a great advantage and decided
to relax a little. He underestimated Slow Poke and thought he had already won
the race.

- What does it mean to do something “slow and steady”?

Doing something slow and steady means to be consistent and persistent in your
efforts, even if you are not the fastest or the most agile.

- Why did Slow Poke accept the challenge?

Slow Poke accepted the challenge because he was confident in his own abilities
without being boastful. He was "eager to join in on any activity" and didn't let
the other animals' mockery discourage him.

- What was different now that Slow Poke beat Bully Bunny in a race?

The other animals who had previously made fun of Slow Poke were now cheering for
him. They were surprised and impressed by his victory.
