On a hot summers’ day, Daniel was in the chicken coop gathering eggs for breakfast
when he noticed a golden egg under one of his hens.
He picked up the shiny, golden egg and was surprised at how heavy it was.
“What on Earth is this?!” he cried. “It isn’t gold, is it?”
He ran into the house calling for his wife. “Martha! Martha! Look what I’ve found!”
“What is it?” his wife asked. “Where on Earth did you find that?”
“It was under one of the hens,” Daniel replied.
“We should take it to the city to see if it’s real,” Martha said.
So, they got in the car and drove to the city. They brought it to an appraiser, and sure enough, the
appraiser confirmed that the egg was a solid, 24 karat, egg-shaped chunk of gold.
The couple was ecstatic, jumping up and down in joy.
“We’re rich!” cried Martha. “Our prayers have been answered.”
That night, the couple went to bed but couldn’t sleep. They were too excited to see if there
would be another golden egg in the morning.
They stayed up all night discussing how they would spend their new-found fortune.
Martha wanted a new house and car. She also wanted a new wardrobe and maids. On the other
hand, Daniel wanted to buy a sailboat and travel the world.
They talked and talked until the sun came up.
“Cock-a-Doodle-Doo!!!” It was the crack of dawn. Both Daniel and Martha jumped out of bed
and ran towards the chicken coop.
The hens were scattered all over, and Daniel couldn’t remember which hen laid the golden
egg. So, one by one, they searched under the hens. After looking under more than half of them,
they started to get discouraged.
After looking under all the hens, they didn’t find a single golden egg. As they started to walk
out of the coop, Martha suddenly called out, “Daniel! We missed one! There’s a hen outside!”
“Check it! Check it,” Daniel cried.
Martha picked up the large reddish hen, and sure enough, there was a golden egg laying there.
“Oh, my goodness! What do we have here?” Daniel exclaimed.
“She’s full of gold!” said Martha. “Do you know what we can do with all this gold?!”
“Yes, but we mustn’t tell anyone about this miracle, or we will have everyone in town at our door.
What if someone tried to steal the hen?! We must be extremely careful,” warned Daniel.
“We could always just kill the hen and take all the gold at once,” suggested Martha.
“Hmm..” Daniel thought for a moment. “That’s actually not a bad idea Martha.”
So, they brought the large hen into the kitchen and cut it open, but all they found were blood
and guts. There wasn’t a trace of gold. The hen was no different from the others on the inside.
“What have we done?!” Cried Martha. “The gold is gone!”
Deep down, Daniel was upset, but his reaction would suggest otherwise.
“Well, there’s no point in crying over it,” he said. “What’s done is done. Now, what’s for lunch?”
“Chicken.” She replied.

# Questions

1. Describe three physical characteristics of the egg.
2. What was Daniel doing when he found the first golden egg?
3. What was the first thing Daniel noticed about the egg? Besides the fact that it was gold.
5. How did Martha want to spend their fortune?
6. Describe the hen that laid the golden egg.
7. Why was Daniel worried if people knew they had a hen that laid golden eggs?
8. What was the reason for killing the hen?
9. What did the couple find when they opened up the hen?
10. What would you do if you found a hen that laid golden eggs?